# Welcome to *python_scripts land*!

Here you will find every python script used to compute everything related to the SIAM. Lemme explain how the folder is (badly) organized:

## CSV Files

Note that "**IN ORDER**" means always the same order.

- ### _AreasCentroids.csv_
    Contains list of the areas **IN ORDER** along with their names and centroids.
  
- ### _AreasGeometriesWithNames.csv_
    Contains list of the areas **IN ORDER** along with their names and geometries.

- ### _OrderedGrid.csv_
    Contains the covariate grid of squares all enumerated with the same name used by their counterpart in the other files.

## Directories
- ### _Old (all municipalities)_
    Contains old matrices and files used when we were considering all the municipalities.
- ### _adjacency_files/_
   Contains the csv files that store adjacency data. More precisely it contains geographically adjacency data and wind adjacency data. If you don't know what that is then take a look under the '_wind_stuff_' folder.
- ### _cost_matrices/_
    Contains the csv files that represent different distance cost matrices between municipalities (the indexes follow the order of MunicipalitiesCentroids.csv). Given $d$ the distance between two municipalities, the cost function in each file are:

  - cost_matrix_0.csv: $\quad\frac{1}{\sqrt{d}}$
  - cost_matrix_1.csv: $\quad\frac{1}{d}$
  - cost_matrix_2.csv: $\quad\frac{1}{d^{1.5}}$
  - cost_matrix_3.csv: $\quad\frac{1}{d^2}$
  - cost_matrix_4.csv: $\quad e^{-d}$
- ### _REGIONE_LOMBARDIA/_
    It contains polygon data of the Lombardy region. More specifically, it contains the entire region polygon and all the municipalities polygons.
- ### _wind_stuff/_
    It contains all the scripts used for doing things with wind and not just spatial data. More info are contained in its _README_ file.

## Scripts
- ### _simplify_lombardy.py_
    Messy collection of scripts used to transform the Lombardy region from having more than 1500 municipalities into just 427 _"areas"_. **Not meant to be run.**
- ### _build_adjacency.py_
    Builds the adjacency matrix and its tuple representation and stores them in the _adjacency_files_ folder.

- ### _build_cost_matrices.py_
    Builds the cost matrices and stores them in the _cost_matrices_ folder.

<!-- - ### _check_cost_matrices.py_
    Plots the different distance cost matrices to check that they make sense. More precisely, it displays every municipality as a dot colored differently depending on its distance from Crema. Will probably be substituted by a notebook.

- ### _generate_adjacency_graph.py_
    Plots an adjacency graph between municipalities using the data generated by the _build_adjacency.py_ script and overlays it on top of Lombardy. It's used to check that everything is correct.
    Will probably be substituted by a notebook. -->
